So welcome back, guys.
Now, in this lecture video, we will discuss that, how Beijing helps to solve the problem of external
fragmentation.
So we have already learned that same size of the physical memory is always choose an equal to the size
of physical page.
Or in other words, you can say that the size of the physical page has been chosen equal to the size
of a frame of a physical memory.
So on a 32 bit system built, the frame size and physical size has been chosen as four kilobytes.
Now, there is a good reason that why frame size has been chosen equal to the size of a physical page
of a process.
Not that a physical page is always loaded at the boundary of a frame.
Now, in this diagram, suppose this is a frame of a physical memory, right?
And this block represents the physical page.
Right, so you can see that the size of the frame is actually more than the size of a physical page.
Now, if you load this physical page into this frame of the physical memory, it will look something
like this.
Now, in this example, the size of the physical page is not equal to the size of a frame of a physical
memory.
In fact, the frame size is more than the size of a physical page.
Now, when this happens, you can see there is a small portion of the physical memory within a frame
which is wasted and unusable.
Right.
So this problem is called the problem of external fragmentation and using frame size exactly equal to
the size of a physical page.
The problem of external fragmentation has been completely prevented by concept of paging.
There will be no external fragmentation if the size of a frame is equal to the size of a physical page
which is loaded into a frame.